

19/05/2017

Mr Daniel Thaagaard Andreasen  
daniel.andreasen@astro.up.pt

Our Ref. : AA/2017/30771

Dear Mr Andreasen,

Your manuscript entitled :

"High resolution near-IR spectroscopy of Arcturus and 10 Leonis. Refining a near-IR iron line list"

was reviewed by a referee who does not recommend publication at this stage. The referee is willing to read a revised version of your work if a truly substantial effort is made to improve the manuscript along the lines suggested in the report enclosed. This is not a small or simple request for cosmetic improvements.

A line list paper is only useful to publish if it is very carefully and precisely presented and a paper for A&A needs to include new scientific results. You have to make the significant improvements requested by the referee otherwise I simply cannot recommend that this paper is accepted for publication. You cannot have simple errors in the paper at this stage of the refereeing process it gives the referee a terrible impression of how careful you and your coauthors have been. You also need to rewrite the (substantial) parts of the introduction that are a copy of your previous paper. When you reuse text like this it is called self-plagiarism and it is not allowed.  As you see the referee will only very reluctantly look at a new version. Consider if you can actually improve the paper sufficiently. It might be better to simply withdraw this paper.

If you resubmit your paper, please take all of the referee's comments and suggestions into account in the revision and load the new version (in referee format and in printer format) on our Manuscript Management System located at https://mms-aanda.obspm.fr/is/aa/resubmit_a_paper.php. 
Your author ID number is 26576.

- In your cover letter, please indicate precisely all the changes made in the revised version. Please also include your detailed responses keyed to the items in the report.
- Mark all the changes clearly (using boldface) in your manuscript.

With best regards,

Eline Tolstoy
A&A Editor
-------------------
Referee report

I’ve read the paper again and I acknowledge the authors have taken my comments with good intentions. However, the message of this work is still not reaching me.  While reading the paper, I became very frustrated because my comments/suggestions are like those I would make as a co-author of a close student and not as a referee.

I believe as a referee my duty is to assess whether the content and presentation of the work reaches the standards of A&A, and I am afraid that this paper doesn’t. I am sorry but do not see that there is significant new contribution to the field with this work. The paper is still about the determination of parameters of 2 well-known stars, using known methods and an existing line list. It gives the impression that even Paper I was not good work, as substantial discussion is dedicated to the improvement of the line list using a star that was already analysed in Paper I.

Since the first submission, the structure has improved, as well as some discussions in the context of the literature. However, I do not think the authors understood my main concern about this paper, which remains in this new version. 

I had expected, from my concerns of my previous report, the authors to do substantial work focusing the paper on the line list rather than the parameters of 2 (or 3?) stars. Given that, I was surprised to get a new version to revise so quickly after the first report. Reading the new version, I see that the paper  is not focused on the line list but still on the parameters

Furthermore, many of my previous main concerns remain and new details showing that the paper is poorly written appear. It is in fact a shame to see the many details on the paper that are badly written, or without justification or without reason. I list some examples below, which are not all. 


The authors are free to take them into account for improvement of the manuscript, but I do not think it is my duty to point out to some of these trivial aspects which are done by authors and not referees. Therefore I am not willing to keep revising this manuscript further. I am sceptical that the work will reach a level that I will be happy with, even if these points are considered since the overall content of the paper is weak. 



	- Intro: I had this time a look at paper I. The intro is a copy-paste. I don’t know if this is allowed, but certainly not very original and gives me further feeling that this work is just the same as Paper I.

[from editor: this is NOT allowed]

	- Intro: List of NIR spectrographs. You still neglect APOGEE, which I can’t understand why. It is true that the spectra are of lower resolution and wavelength coverage than the other data, but certainly a huge interest in getting into IR spectroscopy is thanks to the pioneer work of APOGEE. Besides, you say your work is for APOGEE irrelevant due to the resolution, but you mention that EW can be measured for R = 20,000 which is the resolution of APOGEE.

	— Sect 2.1: First paragraph: After an entire paragraph, I still didn't understand the reason of using the Sun and the F-Star. 

	- Sect 2.1: First paragraph GAIA-ESO (wrongly spelled) Gaia is not with capital letters.
 
	- Fig 1: still irrelevant. Yes, you make the difference, but still no unit! Why is that helpful?  The text referring to that figure, from a visual inspection we should be happy that both stars are similar? In fact, their parameters (which you list and derive) have quite different metallicities and surface gravities… why are the spectra then so similar as you claim? That doesn’t make sense to me.

	- Sect 2.2:  "Since we wanted to compile a line list for FGK, and possible M dwarf stars, suitable for the EW method, we decided to start from the VALD3 database” This motivation doesn’t make sense. 
 
	 — Section 2.2:  "This has not been done for the NIR previously “ This is wrong. With a quick inspection in the line-list description of the papers you mention on your paper, I could see that Hawkins et al 2016, and Lindgren et al 2016 also start from VALD. This statement is a bit embarrassing, as it requires a quick check on relevant papers. I wonder if the authors ever read any of the line-list papers I suggested to consider. Besides, your VALD3 reference is quite old... 

	— Solar abundance: You use Gonzalez&Laws2000, which is not standard. Why? Any comment on why not using Grevesse or Asplund abundances? 

	— Section3 :  "The refinement is needed, since we experienced some inconsistencies with especially the derived metallicity compared to literature values” What do you mean by inconsistencieS? Your results were wrong? 

	— Section 3: I don’t get the refinement at all. It gives me the impression your work done in Paper I was wrong. Furthermore, I would expect the giants have a line list that is different than the dwarfs, as line strength changes. This is well-known and here a comparison of lines that are good for both, dwarfs and giants, is the kind of analysis that could be interesting but is lacking. 

	— You remove more than half of lines from Paper I in this revision. This seems a lot to me! I’m sure you can come up with some plots and further analysis of which lines were removed.  
	
	— Sect 3: It was not clear to me if this list stand for the giants and F-dwarf, and why would you refine the list with the F-dwarf and not the giants. I think the core of your work (as said from the title) is this section, which is very short and has no figures or tables or anything. Again, Table A1 is the result of this section and is not mention in the text. 

	- Sect 4:  "While this is a well tested method for getting atmospheric parameters utilising the optical part of the spectrum, it is a novel approach in the NIR. Due to its novelty” This is not novel, you’ve done it in Paper I! It is more appropriate to say that little has been done with EW in the IR compared to optical because data is just becoming available now. 

	- Sect 5:  "omitting the Sun since the derived parameters are trivial with a calibrated line list” Why is this sentence useful? If you want to say why from 4 stars you came to present only 3, then do that at the beginning of the section. It is chaotic otherwise, as it happened that you remembered while making the plot. 

	- Fig 2: It should go after Fig 3, since you present the results after making the discussion of Arcturus, and so on. Too chaotic, again.  

	- Fig 2: the standard deviation of Arcturus metallicity literature is not the same as the value quoted in the table. Also, if arcturus were such a nice benchmark, then using literature (with that large errorbar) is irrelevant as every result essentially agrees. You can remove from the literature outliers, by  being clear that you didn’t consider certain references (of course specifying which).

	 - Fig2: A difference is better than absolute numbers, like this you can get better scaling for all 3 stars. As it is now, it is difficult to get the numbers out of the plot. 

	- Sect 5.2:  "summer set and winter set show excellent agreement with a dispersion of 7mÅ . This means that the two data sets are very similar, thus we decided to only manually measure the EWs for one set “ I’m sorry but a dispersion of 7 mAA sounds large to me, if you consider EW that can be of 7mAA. This again shows a dodgy statement with flawed arguments.  What about using fractional differences instead, like this you get a scatter in percentage. 

	— Sect 5.2: You haven’t motivated the fixing log-g issue… chaotic. 

	— Section 5.2:  “ We generally see good agreement between the derived parameters and the average values from the literature adopted (see Table 2)” What is good agreement for you? This comes back to my first report…
"It is very important to derive the metallicity accurately, and we report consistent results overall.”  What? why important? What do you mean accurately? This whole sentence is not saying anything really. 
	
	-Sect 5.3:  "We note that this parameter is not reported in the PASTEL database, and this was a derived parameter from a empirical relation.” The whole point of the PASTEL database is that you have the reference there, with bibcode and everything. You’re welcomed to look at the reference for the vmic parameter yourself! Is not hard! you just have to open a couple of papers! 


After that I felt doing the work of a co-author and not as referee, but I hope the authors get the point of why I think this paper is not well presented or the work is not properly investigated. Table A1 still lacks the references for excitation potential and log-gfs. Why do you expect everybody to extract the data from VALD? Which one exactly did you use? It would be nice to acknowledge the people doing those values, and VALD provides with the corresponding reference. This is a paper about line list, it is minimal literature that has to be included.  (Similar should be done for PASTEL but don’t want to insist at this stage)

Below some answers to your questions. 





Content:
Focus on the line list and not on the parameters. Describe where the atomic
data comes from. Make a discussion on previous works on the literature based
on the line list. Make plots comparing the line lists, which lines are removed
and why, how many lines are in agreement.
Answer: The work of Önehag et al. 2012, and Shetrone et al. 2015 have been
mentioned for two other NIR line list. It is not clear which kind of plots to
compare the line lists are asked for here.

Which lines are in common? Which are not? What are removed, by how much you change log-gf from VALD after calibrating? Any relation of both stars with the Sun, as a function of EW, or EXC.POT? What are the best source of atomic data? Which lines have been used by e.g. the APOGEE team, Hawkins or Lindergen? 

If this is a line-list paper (from the title, I insist) that kind of analysis is what I’ve liked to see, which would have been really interesting, useful and new. I understand this is writing essentially a new paper, but that I already commented in my first report.    




Calling literature (simbad) is not acceptable for reproducibility. I have had so
many times in the past trouble finding the source on the literature because of
this. I know it is tedious and boring, but necessary if you want your work to be
useful! The PASTEL database is very useful if you want to have literature with
the references included.
Answer: It is not completely clear what the referee wants here, but this has
been changed. Now we used the median values of PASTEL measurements as our
"literature value" for the different parameters, microturbulence is derived by
an empirical equation. We only give a reference to the PASTEL catalogue where
all individual references can be found. The stellar parameters remains the same
within the errors as the previous obtained literature values.

I wanted here to see that you had investigated the literature, and cited some relevant papers you used. You didn’t really do that here by changing to PASTEL. 


What about Table A1? Where do you put this in? Also, why putting the EW of the
Sun and not of the stars you analysed here, in particular Arcturus? Where do
these EW come from, manually measured or by ARES? I think that table is a good
idea, but it is very incomplete.
Answer: The table has been expanded with the EWs of the three other stars
whenever it was possible to measure. 

The table still lacks the references. And that table is your main result, which is what I would have expect you to use up further to compare it with your previous work at least. 





